# Import & export your collection: .cmpss

## Overview

.cmpss is a file format designed to share data between compass users.
Like many other existing file formats, .cmpss is not a binary file but a renamed zip archive.

This means that you can inspect its content outside of COMPASS by renaming it back to .zip and opening it like any other archive. All the files inside are also .xml files which are both human readable and editable.

## Contents

As single .cmpss file corresponds to a single collection and can contain any of the following:

- A `version` file that contains the version of COMPASS that was used to create the .cmpss file. This is used to check compatibiliy during import.
- A `CodexInfo.xml` file containing all the items in the collections with their metadata such as their title, author, ect.
- A `CollectionInfo.xml` file containing info and preferences about the collection such as which folders to check for import and folder-tag links.
- A `Tags.xml` file containing all the tags for that collection.
- A `CoverArt` folder containing full res versions of the cover art of the items in `CodexInfo.xml`.
- A `Files`folder that contains files that were referenced by the `path` field of the items.

## Compatibility

COMPASS maintains backwards compatibility with older .cmpss files, meaning they can be opened in any version of COMPASS that is equal to or greater than the version in which the files were created.

Backward compatibility however poses challenges, as .cmpss files created in newer versions may have changes in their data structure that older versions cannot interpret. Attempting to import these newer files anyway could result in data that has seen changes to its structure getting lost in the import. It can also result in crashes and even possible file corruption of your existing collections.

Because of these dangers COMPASS will not allow importing .cmpss files created in a newer versions. Al least for now.
If you wish to import a .cmpss file made in a newer version, you will have to update your install to match the target version.
If however you do not want to update, you can verify compatability manually by referencing the included changelog, and change the version file manually once you have verified that none of the data in the import has seen changes to its format.

## Format changes

### Version 1.7.0

Intoduction of the format.
